---
title: Romper Room
date: 2012/07/21
category: articles
---

Continuing my theme of child-rearing (Why the Agency World Needs Super
Nannies) I thought I'd share a few points on the daily stand-up, morning
review, status update or whatever you may have named that special time
of day when your team comes together to discuss the progress of a
project. 

Like naps are to a baby, status meetings are to a project team -
essential. It is when you make sure you are meeting incremental
deadlines and driving toward the finish line with the right product. It
is also when you often want to tear your hair out, weave it into a lasso
and then capture and attempt to strangle your neighbor. On one
particular project these meetings became known, unaffectionately, as the
Romper Room. 

Here's the thing. We had a lot of talented, over-worked people meeting
daily on a highly visible project, but we had very few tools to instill
accountability and peace of mind on a digital project of this scale.

Account Managers felt like babysitters. They were hand-holding,
spoon-feeding and begging people to get the work done. 
Project Managers felt like ineffective parents. The project timeline
wasn't possible...but also was seemingly immovable.
Designers felt teen angst all over again. Their excellent work wasn't
even being recognized, just their problems with authority, aka
deadlines.
Developers felt like they were always getting blamed for something they
didn't do. The deadline would be compressed by the time the work got to
them, despite their warnings.

By the end of the meeting everyone acted like big, whiny, babies.
Talking over each other, ignoring issues and turning flow charts into
phallic symbols. And, while we might have liked to throw the babies out
with the bathwater, we knew they weren't really the problem. So, we
started over--- and approached project execution from a dev-centric POV
and instituted the following:

Pivotal Tracker for the creative team. They would estimate and be
assigned work just like the development team. Giving them clear
visibility of all the work on their plate and the status of that work
(accepted or rejected by the client).  And now there was one view of the
team’s velocity and priorities on a macro and micro scale within the
tool. 
Notable for the account team. They would take down all client changes in
context of the visual comps, and share with the team. They had to be
precise in their note-taking. 
And, most importantly we empowered the account team with a new method of
communication. They were allowed to say ‘yes and...’ - meaning they
could effectively push back on client because they understood the
project velocity. They let client know in very clear terms what changes
would do to the timeline and the budget and worked with them to
prioritize the work accordingly.
Actual, legitimate, liquidy tears were shed in that Romper Room. Before
the change in process and during. But, in the end, the new approach
resolved the majority of the issues that had been plaguing the project
for months. 

  Yep, we believe it is time to re-think the agency process. And there
  are tools that can help you implement this change - so long as you can
  put up with some crying. But as our Moms always said about a good cry
  -"That's just good exercise for the lungs, darling".  
