---
title: Why the Agency World Needs Super Nannies 
date: 2012/07/25
category: articles
---

I was watching the Super Nanny today (while postponing writing this blog
post and pretending to be doing parental research) and this wacky
British family was still feeding their 2 1/2 year old children pureed
food. In some cases they were force feeding them so that they would at
least taste it... and then hate it. Fortunately Jo, in her nurse white
pumps, put that to an end. 

But, it made me think that in some ways we in the agency world have
continued to force feed clients old fashioned, pureed processes because
that's what we are all used to, even though we may hate the way it makes
us work. No one stopped to recognize that changes in media (digital!)
should have us sitting down to a meal made of a very different, much
more satisfying process by now. 

That's why Bree and I are writing. We're dishing up a different approach
to running, and working with, an agency. A framework that grows
developmentally advanced agencies and big, strong brands. 

But, before we get into what we are really proposing, let me clarify a
few things. Bree and I are not British, in fact we both have Texas roots
and do an excellent Southern twang when needed. Bree is the tattooed,
ex-bartender, ex-lawyer with hot-pink hair and a knack for the F-bomb.
She has more in common with Gordon Ramsay than Jo the Super Nanny. I am
her daughter-of-a-preacher, ex-ballet dancer, ex-journalist counterpart.
I'd like to think of myself as the Kate Middleton of Midland, but only
because I too wear some outfits more than once.

But like Jo, we do care deeply, sincerely and lovingly about our work.
We are passionate about nurturing a new way of doing business - where
both agencies and clients thrive. Thing is, it will require you to
swallow some strange new ideas, and keep them down. But we promise, it
will be like going from pureed peas to risotto with fresh peas, herb
rubbed lamb chops and a bottle of bubbly.

In the words of the nanny, "The truth is a powerful thing". 
As Gordon would say,"F'ing brilliant." 
