---
title: Suits are for Suckers. Discuss. 
date: 2012/09/19
category: articles
---

I was inspired by a recent 37 Signals post on formality, "We’re breaking
down the stranglehold of formality everywhere. No more personal
secretaries, memos on official letterhead, meetings that must happen in
person. There’s never been less mental mask switching between work and
play. We wear the same clothes, use the same technology. It’s a
liberation of the mind and it’s the new world order."

This got me thinking about 2 things:

People respond to generalizations. Readers got fired up about whether or
not wearing a suit is a legit sign of a progressive workplace - there
were 63 comments as of today. We'd love that kind of conversation on our
blog - so plan on the continued use of opinionated generalizations that
you may or may not agree with, by The Brat. For instance, "Texas is the
finest country on earth". Now, discuss.
Agencies have broken the chains of unnecessary formality...until every
Monday morning at 10 am. Yep, we are flexible, creative and a bastion of
progress until Monday morning when timesheets are due.  Finance sends
out a note reminding everyone to submit their time. Then employees go
back to their calendar and try to remember what they did last week.
Inevitably we take a few good guesses, fill in the form and just try to
get the thing done so we can get back to our real job. 
This feeds the estimating and forecasting machine.  The machine sucks. 

The machine is archaic (based on the old print/radio/TV days) and a
formality based on mistrust (between Employer and Employee and Agency
and Client).  In sum, the machine should be dismantled, put through a
chipper, doused with Aqua Net, lit on fire and then buried in a cement
(pronounced See-ment) tomb under the Alamo.  

Too much? Okay, how about this - How about we just quit estimating by
roles, variable rates, minute tasks and half hours. 

Digital is different. Digital is about a team building a malleable piece
of software that depends on  changing technologies and a rapidly
evolving consumer. Digital estimating should be about identifying the
right people needed to do the work and then dedicating their time for a
set period.

So, let's use a flat rate which creates a set number of hours based on
the budget and then have people work against this in short sprints and,
gasp, allow for and even encourage responsiveness. Give the client
visibility as tasks change and how that impacts the budget and the
timeline.

It may sound idealistic. But guess what, it can be done. Bree and I have
used this process with clients. Our buddies over at Mode Set operate
this way all day long. And while the alternative of sticking with what
we know may be more comfortable, remember that formality by definition
is: a necessary but insignificant procedure: a procedure that must be
followed because it is a rule or custom, but has little significance or
effect in itself. 

Timesheets are a custom, a formality. They have little significance in
generating or driving actual work. It's time to evolve this financial
processes. It will look differently for every agency, every
organization. But it will look like the future.  

Now, personally, I don't care if you are in a 3-piece suit or your
birthday suit when you rework this process. Whatever gets you there
faster.
