---
title: Landing on the Moon in Stilettos 
date: 2012/07/23
category: articles
---

Generally speaking, I am either "on" or "off" with no in-between.  So it
is only natural that I would find myself rocketing out of a fast-paced,
high-octane, uber-digital Ad Agency, with a pretty paycheck and esteemed
position –- to suddenly finding myself parked in an uber-traditional and
quaint agency, on a three-month freelance consulting contract,
double-checking that I still had a pulse.  And that was the easy part.
Then I had to figure out how to unwind, decompress, pull myself together
again, and help this agency discover what it takes to "work in digital."
It was like I landed on the fucking moon.

I jumped in head first, full assimilation into a foreign landscape,
ready to find opportunity in every crater and leave no lunar rock
unturned.  As far as I was concerned, the task at hand was
straightforward, in my wheelhouse, and an easy assessment and
sell-through.  But then as luck would have it… I vastly underestimated
my Martian status on the moon.  Shit.  Come to find out, the agency held
its own preconceived notion that if I could simply answer a couple of
their questions, then they would have a 'roadmap' for competing in
digital marketing and communications for the next decade.   
Question #1:  What is a unique digital product that we can develop for
sale?
Question #2:  Who do we hire to make it?

Dammit to hell.  I was going to light that notion up hotter than Georgia
asphalt in the summer and then stick my stiletto in it good and proper.
Which is precisely what I thought they wanted, but I might have been
better off borrowing Kat’s ballet flats in the first month, as I
explained to them that not only were they asking the wrong questions,
but they needed to take a good, hard look at how they ran their business
from the inside to the outside.  And that was just to survive for the
next couple years.  And my assessment, which ran contrary to what they
thought they hired me to tell them, was not well received.  Admittedly I
don't waste precious time bothering with lengthy, coddling deliveries -
I prefer straight to the point and frank honesty.  Life is short after
all, but you can imagine some friction ensued as a result of said
delivery.  To quote my Mama,  “Bless your heart darlin’ – but you don’t
know any authority other than your own and that will be both a blessing
and a curse for you.”  Duly noted – again.

Interestingly enough – a ton of agencies are in the same situation,
seeking answers to similar questions.  Maybe not verbatim, and all are
on varying paths in their quest to elevate their digital services, but
one recurring theme persists – agencies are so busy viewing digital as
just another channel, clamoring to build up their staff with people who
will make “digital things”, they have completely misdiagnosed where the
real opportunity lies.   The opportunity is in molding an adaptive
business platform that: includes client as a member of the day-to-day
team, draws from the processes of software development, embraces the
unknown in scope, and throws every traditional organizational agency
norm out the fucking window from perspective to process to culture.  

And I am passionate about that adaptive platform. And passionate about
working better to make better work.  And I absolutely deliver it with
the no-frills-attached approach, because there is no crying in
advertising and I will not sacrifice clarity in the name of
ego-stroking.  

Did I mention they didn't offer to extend my consulting contract?  
Ha!  That Mama of mine... Right. Every. Damn. Time.
