---
title: Source of Inspiration Microsoft Open Technologies
date: 2012/11/29
category: articles
---

Bree and I are big fans of the MVP -- Minimum Viable Product, as
popularized by Eric Ries (theleanstartup.com). It's essentially a
strategy for building fast and building small in order to launch and
measure iteratively - gaining valuable and REAL user/consumer feedback
along the way. This feedback defines your go-forward decisions in
product and features.

The result is less waste, more timely innovation, and ultimately a much
better chance of legitimate success. I know, it sounds like a wonder
drug promising to help you lose 100 lbs without even breaking a
sweat...and it kind of is.  We embrace it as a mindset, applying it to
everything we encounter professionally and while we still break a sweat
it looks more like what we Southerners call a 'glisten'. We even use it
to build huge PPT presentations for pitches and it's been one of our
most successful Aha Method tools.

In a recent meeting with some folks from the Microsoft Open Technologies
team, a subsidiary of Microsoft dedicated to building and maintaining
code that bridges proprietary Microsoft software with the open source
community, we were chatting about how powerful MVP is as a mindset. They
told me that they don't use MVP, they use MRDV.

They think about it as the Minimum Required to Deliver Victory.

While the acronym is unfortunate (it brings to mind those TV ads that
promote aforementioned wonder drugs and  quickly and quietly list the
side effects which typically include hair loss and/or death) it has
resolved for Bree and I the nagging issue around training teams in an
MVP mindset. The thing is, they take one look at the word minimum and
take it to mean cheap or quick.  Sometimes clients forget that
delivering on objectives and success metrics is rarely cheap or quick.
The MRDV title places an emphasis on success, aka Victory,  in a way
that might help us avoid these incorrect, pre-conceived notions.

So, a big thanks to the Open Technologies team for sharing their take on
this tool. And, here's to MRDV...which, like so many great marketing
techniques, probably shouldn't be combined with heavy machinery and/or
Benadryl.
