---
title: Punch that Sucker in the Middle 
date: 2012/08/14
category: articles
---

In my transition to client-side, I inherited a client/agency
relationship with the predictable kiss and punch cadence. Both of them
spouting piss and vinegar behind one another's back, and then smiling
through passive aggressive cheap shots in meetings with one another, all
in a very obvious effort to assign blame for missed
expectations/deadlines.  But, instead of puckering up or putting on my
gloves, I simply put the teams on a sprint format, gave them a little
coaching, and it worked wonders.  They realized immediate efficiencies,
faster pace in the work and most importantly - they begin to trust one
another.  There was however, still one person I constantly had up
against the ropes...our Account Manager on the Agency side. 

Here's the thing - the group doing the work, the team who built the
software critical to our organization, was merely contracted through the
Agency.  So for the day-to-day sprints, my designated client-side team
was working directly with the agency-contracted-development-team in the
sprint format.  And this is good. The people doing the work, should be
the ones having the conversation.

Unfortunately, the Agency, in desperate need of proving their worth,
kept trying to find ways to insert the appointed Account Manager into
the day-to-day.  And this is bad.  This is where I start putting
Vaseline on my forehead and wrapping my knuckles.

A natural outcome of the sprint dynamic is the elimination of
superfluous roles/team members.  I cannot emphasize this enough - if you
do not bring value to the team, meaning you are not a decision maker,
  nor one actually doing the work, then you are at best a middle-man.  

  And you should be Knocked the Fuck Out (of the equation).
  Because the middle-man creates waste.  
  And waste erodes relationships.

  The time for both agencies and clients to understand what it takes to
  market, create and manage in digital is long overdue.  And to be clear
  – the answer is not just in hiring digitally skilled resources to make
  digital things - and then try to "manage" them. 

  A client once told me, “I never outsource my brain.”  That has stuck
  with me for years.  Because when you think about it, simply hiring
  "digital talent" to make your "digital things" is outsourcing your
  brain, and it isn’t enough anymore. Today's teams don't need another
  box checker or messenger.  They need qualified members and relevant
  stakeholders to participate in the development of the end product in a
  meaningful way.

  The frameworks and tools that Kat and I provide to agencies and
  clients, won’t teach teams how to write code, but they will teach
  teams how to self-organize into small, productive groups and how to
  work collaboratively and rapidly within that group.

  And this is 1-2 punch combo that is critical to affect measurable
  change within your marketing, your teams and ultimately – your ROI.
