---
title: Strategizing is for Prom Queens
date: 2013/03/12
category: articles
---

I hear the word “strategy” thrown on just about everything. Like
rhinestones on a South-Texas-prom-queen’s dress, “strategy” is too often
a cheap and easy bedazzle on everything from powerpoint slides, to
someone’s superfluous commentary in a meeting that is already running
too long with too many attendees. Anymore, in my day-to-day, Strategy is
quite the loose little buzzword.

Often, it is a noun, as in “brand strategy” or “I am a strategist."
Sometimes it is an adjective, as in “strategic vision” or “strategic
insights." Also, as an adverb, such as “strategically developed” or
“strategically placed.” And lets not forget it as a verb, as in
“strategize” (which for the record, makes me want to punch the speaker
in the nose every time I hear it).

And that isn’t to say that I don’t use the word often myself. But I used
to accept the word at what I believed was its face value - a sense of
something great and purposeful. A sense that when I heard “strategy” - I
knew we were talking about the key to winning whatever was at stake, the
secret sauce critical to achieving the mission. I knew we’d be talking
about something tangible, and most importantly - something actionable.
(Strategy is, by definition a military term that, in a nutshell means
using your brains and your guts to not only stack the odds in your
favor, but empower you to make the right decisions when confronted with
any obstacle.)

Now, given the bedazzling trend, I’ve made it my personal charge to pay
much closer attention when the word “strategy” is presented. Analyzing
it quietly in my head, from every angle. Challenging my own application
of it constantly. Because the real disturbing trend, is not that the
word gets overused, but rather that the very concept of strategy has
become a crutch. A well disguised excuse NOT to act. An exercise in
lengthy requirements gathering to plan for problems and scenarios that
don’t yet exist. A perceived need to create a long list of tasks for
what should happen in the future, when instead we should be driving for
real feedback via iterative launches in the present. I see terms like
“strategic goals” and “strategic vision” plastered across powerpoint
slides, and the actual bullet points associated with most of these goals
and visions, amount to little more than minute tactics positioned as
passive options to explore. Presented in the context of “we are working
on”, or “working toward”, or “think there is great opportunity within
this area”.

And with that lack of conviction, certainty, drive - fucking nothing can
be won. It’s all a lot of bling with very little bang.

So here is what I'm really driving at - let's all of us in the industry
be more thoughtful with strategy. That when creating, executing,
presenting, or thinking about strategy in any context, let’s be critical
of ourselves, of our interpretation of strategy and when/how/why it
matters or is applied. As an example, do we sometimes create formality
where it isn’t warranted - like laboring over a “social media strategy”,
when maybe all we really need is to just be social? Or when our strategy
feels like it is a moving target, and people struggle with how to
articulate it - should we check our premises? Are there assumptions at
play that have been driving a weak, obtuse strategy? And if the goals
are ill-defined, then no amount of “strategic planning” is going to get
us anywhere, even if we wrap that anemic goal in a shiny label called
“strategic vision.” 

Diamonds are a girl's best friend for a reason  - because they have real
value. The real, lasts-for-a-100-years-and-cut-glass kind of value.
Fortunately, making sure your strategy has actual value is really pretty
simple - just ask yourself, is your strategy something your team can:

Articulate without a slide in front of them?
Apply in any given situation?
Execute against to deliver desired results?
Feel empowered and confident in so doing?
