---
title: What the Rose Ceremony and Your RFP Have in Common
date: 2013/01/14
category: articles
---

The point of the Bachelorette is for the audience to view a bevy of good
looking men come trouncing through Malibu castle doors offering up the
best, most evenly spray tanned, versions of themselves in order to get
picked by a single eligible female. And the Bachelorette in question is
apparently working off the assumption that you don't know what you want
until you see it, professionally wrapped and done up with a bow -- so
the more men the merrier. 

The point of some agency reviews is for the brand to get a slew of
talented agencies to submit their best selves in PDF or PPT format and
then, a lucky few, may come sell their wares in-person.  And, according
to certain CMOs, this is as delightful as a group helicopter date
complete with champagne. They, like the Bachelorette, assume the more
ideas, wrapped in pretty packages, the more likely you are to find
something you want.

I don't smell roses. I smell something the cows left behind.

First of all, smart, talented people should not be working insane hours
on a pitch, all the time wondering whether they are subject to a
procurement exercise and prancing their ponies just for show, or whether
they are actually in the running. Such exercise is wasteful. The BRAT
abhors waste.

Second, and more importantly -- true love happens when you know what you
are looking for in a partner. Yes, there will be some surprises along
the way, but if you don't know yourself well enough to know what you
need to, dare I say, complete you, then it will be impossible for anyone
to please you for very long. Brands are responsible for knowing what
they need to drive the business forward and clearly articulating those
goals.  The agency is responsible for explaining how their team would
tackle those goals. The agency review process should be about finding
the best business partner, not the sexiest creative or another "big
idea."

So here's a thought, let's rework the traditional pitch process all
together and start valuing more substance over gift-wrap.

WHAT IF:

Agencies brought less creative comps and more analysis? 
Brands paid agencies to pitch? (Not necessarily an hourly rate, but a
token of respect and a way to ensure you only get called in if they
really think you can win.)
We all quit estimating each line item and instead talked about the skill
sets required to meet the business opportunities (which, by the way,
change all the time)
I know, I know, the Bachelorette has been on for almost a decade because
certain formulas work. Tradition should count for something. But, as a
recent Ad Age article about this very topic said,

"...maybe you should consider that a decision based on habits and myths
may not be strategic.  It might be as stupid as it sounds."  - Ad Age
Article
Habits and myths are powerful things. But you know what's even more
powerful -- common sense. People want to do good work, they want to
compete and they want to know they aren't chasing tails or giving away
their work. Now, I'll drink champagne in a heart-shaped hot tub to that. 
