---
title: Frequency Hopping and Book Writing 
date: 2013/06/29
category: articles
---

We've become slightly infatuated with Hedy Lamarr. You may have noticed
her face repeatedly gracing our posts. From 1930 to 1989 she appeared in
over 35 movies and was called the "most beautiful woman in Europe". 

“Any girl can be glamorous. All you have to do is stand still and look
stupid.”
Sexy, snarky and smart. She patented one of the technologies involved in
today's wireless communications - frequency-hopping spread-spectrum. She
received her patent in 1942. However, it wasn't until 20 years later and
after the patent had expired, in 1962, when the technology was finally
used by U.S. military ships during a blockade of Cuba.

Now, Bree and I have no idea if she employed a fail small, fail fast
approach to her invention or if she was a fan of iterative releases. But
we do know that she had a valuable idea that people didn't appreciate
right away and that she approached life with a certain sense of
optimism. 

"Hope and curiosity about the future seemed better than guarantees.
That's the way I was. The unknown was always so attractive to me... and
still is." 
Bree and I are in the middle of an undertaking that is unknown and
highly attractive to us - writing a book. And after spending a weekend
batting ideas around and questioning each other on the validity and
ingenuity and relevance of our ideas we settled on two things we think
Hedy would agree with:

No matter what, we must do it with our own voice, personality and
panache
You can’t rely on the validation of others to tell you that you have a
good idea (but since our idea doesn’t have anything to do with missile
defense we're pretty sure it shouldn’t take 20 years for it to be put to
good use)
